# ComNets-Research-Lab-Sensor-Data (SEDA)
Data Collected from 6 sensors installed in the Garden July 19-September 30, 2022
The data under different practical situations, including real faulty behaviours, play an essential role in evaluating the performance of the proposed method. However, to our knowledge,there is no such dataset available publicly that contains both normal and real faulty sensor measurements, which are not
even evident and mimic normal sensor data. Accordingly, we produced two labelled datasets with both healthy and defective sensors. We believe the collected data can provide valuable resources for developing tools and supporting the community.
The following subsections detail the datasets and experiments along with preparing datasets for testing the proposed method.
A. Data acquisition
This work conducts two experiments to prepare two different datasets which contain sensor data from real-world implementations. For the first dataset, namely DB 1, two temperature-humidity sensors (i.e. DHT11) were connected to
the ESP-WROOM-32’s I/O pins. The data was measured by sensors every 30 minutes and transferred wirelessly to store
in a time-series database. The setup was located outdoors in a garden. One of the DHT11 sensors, DHT A, was healthy and
checked with a reference temperature and humidity monitor device to ensure that the collected data was accurate. The
other DHT11 sensor, DHT B, was not measuring accurately because it was degraded due to ageing. This experiment was
conducted for one week (i.e. from 19-7-2022 to 25-7-20022). Figure 4 illustrates the time series data for temperature and humidity acquisitions from the first setup. We can observe in Figure 4 that the faulty sensor (i.e. DHT B) does not always produce inaccurate data, which is in contrast to the
mathematical approach for injecting synthetic random faults suggested by several publications.
For the second database, namely DB 2, three temperaturehumidity sensors (i.e. DHT11) and one soil moisture sensor (i.e. pm-wcs-3-i2c) were connected to ESP-WROOM-32’s I/O pins and collecting data from 15-08-2022 to 16-09-2022. The data was measured by sensors every 30 minutes and transferred to store in a cloud-based dataset. The setup was located outdoors in a garden as well. At the beginning of the experiment, all sensors, namely DHT C, DHT D and DHT E
were healthy and compared with the reference temperature and humidity device. Then, two different typical faults, sensor malfunctions and tamper events, that can happen for sensors in smart agriculture systems have been emulated. In this regard, based on the fact that the sensing material will be faster degraded in stress conditions, such as very high-temperature, on ‘18-08-2022 at 17:00‘, DHT C was exposed to the steam water to degrade. This causes the humidity values to be no longer accurate but still in the normal sensor range. Also, the sensors can be covered by external objects, such as animals, and the corresponding application gets readings on how warm and moist the animal is; these measurements will be inaccurate and reduce the performance of the monitoring smart farming system. Hereupon, for the second fault scenario, the DHT D was covered by leaves from 18-8-2022 at 17:00 to 19-08-2022 at 16:00, and then the leaves were removed. The reason for removing the leaves is to show how the proposed approach is robust in recognizing the situation when sometimes sensors become correct again after the external factor has been removed. By covering the sensor, the humidity values mainly differ from normal values. The collected humidity and temperature measurement from DHT B, DHT C and DHT D is labelled as an anomaly if it deviates from ground truth (i.e. DHT A and DHT E which are checked with reference device) by considering the sensor uncertainty as written in its datasheet, i.e. ±0.5. The datasets can be found on ComNetsBremen Github ripossitory1
